Welcome back.
We have a good idea of how to test React Components but what about redux and some of the reduced hours
actions and concerns that we have let's start off with reduced hours and you're going to absolutely
love this section because remember our reduced hours are pure functions and pure functions are a testers
dream.
They're the easiest to test.
So let's do that.
I'm going to create a new file.
Call it reduces dot test dodgy us and then in here I'm going to import while we need the constants so
I'm going to import the constants and obviously our reduce herself import will do import star as a new
syntax as reduces from
reduces with this syntax we can just do reduces dot whatever reducer that we export it.
So in our case reduce starts there sure robots reduce your dot request robots which reads nicely.
All right let's group these reduces this time around by using a described block Celeste to describe
search robots.
We're going to do our first reducer here and within here loops.
That's not what I wanted to do within here.
We're going to have a test the first test that says should return the initial state.
Now the initial state in the search robots reducer can be tested like this.
So we can do expect
reduces dot search robots.
So that's our reducer.
Remember our reducer takes two things a state and an action and because if state doesn't exist or is
undefined we give it the initial state search.
Let's do that.
I'm going to say that the reducer does search robots gets undefined.
So no state at the beginning and it's going to get no action.
But just given empty action for now we want to test for those cases where while we we have an undefined
state what happens.
Well we wanted to equal our ideal state and our DL state.
And this case is to have search field to be an empty string so let me say that open up our testing suite
and all right.
Everything is passing.
If I press they see that.
Yeah.
Everything is logged down nicely including our reduces dot test.
If we we put an A in the search field it's going to fail.
All right.
So that's great.
That was super super easy.
What else can we do.
Well we expected that this reducer when we see are change search field event that it returns a new state.
So once again we can say that it should handle the change search field event and we can say producers
that search robots.
Let's make this a little bit smaller
is going to get the state of let's say an empty state or you know what.
Let's add a concept initial state search here and say that this initial state search is search field
equals this.
All right.
So we can just use initial search.
So this is going to be the initial state which equals to the empty string and it's going to receive
an action.
And what kind of action is it going to receive.
Am going to remove this for now.
Well if you remember our actions are going to have a type.
And in this case we'll say that type is going to be changed search field.
That comes from our constants file and we can make up the payload that it's going to send.
So let's just say for now that the payload is going to be ABC.
Now what do we expect from that output.
We expect that once it goes through this reducer that the search field is going to equal ABC so we can
say search field should be ABC.
Again we have our initial state search which is an empty string.
It goes through this reducer with this action and we now need the state because remember this reducer
is just going to return the state.
We want the state to be ABC.
Let's save and we have a bit of a fail here.
Let's see what kind of an arrow we get and it looks like she's just the Unexpected token Oh and we need
an extra bracket here and we hit her never saying that type is not defined because because well we don't
need to type here.
That's just a typo on my part.
All right.
So that's passing.
How simple is that with reducer is all we need to do is just give it some sort of an input and expect
an output.
It could just keep going like this forever.
Make your tests better and better let's do the next reducer.
Now let's say that we want to and let's make more space here.
We want to describe the
request robots reducer.
In that case we can just say that we have.
Well let's create an initial state.
So I'm going to again say const initial state for the robots
and if you remember we have the this as the initial state so I'm just going to actually copy this.
So this is our initial state for the test and we want to do the same thing as above it should return
the initial state.
So let's just copy and paste the above and just change the search robots to request robots.
And we want that to equal the initial state
let's save and we have a failed test.
Let's see what we failed here initial state.
Robots is not defined because I need to add a cost in here.
Let's save.
All right.
Everything is passing.
We're getting our initial state as expected.
That's good.
But let's do a another test and say that we want the three cases over here to be tested so let's do
an initial it
should handle requests.
Robots less to pending first action and it's going to
have something similar to here.
So again we're going to use the expect statement it's going to have the reduces dot this time request
robots
it's going to receive the initial state of the robots and then we'll give it an action of type
request robots pending and a payload of let's give its is pending to true.
So we expect that when this happens.
Actually if we take a look at the reducer we see that it automatically sends the is pending to true
and there's no payload so we don't need to set that.
We don't need to send a payload but we expect that payload to change from his pending well to false
here because it's pending when we start off is always false.
And in here we want this to equal the state of robots with an empty array spending set to true.
So let's save all right.
Everything is passing but I just noticed here that we don't actually want the default spending to be
true.
We want it to be false because when we first have the initial state.
Well we haven't sent the promise yet.
We haven't requested anything from the API.
If we go into our reduced source file we see that we have the initial state here by true.
By mistake we can just change that to false let's save.
And in here let's save here.
Perfect.
Everything is working and the requested robots pending is changing our is pending state to true all
right.
Let's keep going.
We have the second case which is the success.
So I'm just going to copy and paste here and this time say request robots spending pending success and
this success should have.
Well what should it have.
Well we need some sort of payload because again in our reduced hours we have the robots action payload
that we return or at to the state upon success.
So let's just create that in our type.
We're gonna say payload and I'm going to return.
Let's just grab
let's just create a dummy idea of 1 2 3 let's say name of test.
And then finally email of test at gmail dot com you see over here that this is a string instead of a
number.
I believe in our component we're actually not distinguishing between a number in a string so that's
something we might want to fix in the future but for now we expect that if the payload is that the state
now gets updated with that payload so let's copy that and we also expect the is pending to be false
again if we remember our reducer we're also changing our is pending to false on success so let's save
and we have a bit of an error here.
That is a simple arch nemesis comma.
If we save there it is.
It passes one final test.
You can see a can get pretty repetitive with test but this is a good thing with reducer.
They're so simple to test that you just copy and paste a lot of the code which again is fine for testing
because this code was never gonna go into production.
So let's do the the fail case here.
That is the failed
and in this case we want the payload.
If we go back to our function we want the payload to just have an error.
So again back here we can just say no.
Super upset that we got an error and we expect the state to now have an error that is of no and a is
pending of false
although I see here that we're actually not turning the is pending to false which we should be.
So if we save had a comma but we also expect the robot's array to be returned remember.
So the robot's arrays should be empty and now we have this passing variable.
All right that's enough for you reducer.
You see how simple they are to test.
Simply checking the input against the output.
And that's why you want to have these producers everywhere and why redux is so amazing it's super easy
to test.
And if you think about it all our logic is in our reduced hours.
So if we have really really good tests for our reduced hours we cover a lot of the logic of our applications
because reduced hours are the thing that taken actions and spit out the state.
They're pretty much the controller or the brain of our app redux allows us to have really really nice
tests and keeping things simple on the relax side by just doing snapshot testing or simple enzyme tests
and testing out pure functions which again is very useful but for now that's it for me.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.